# PayBuddy

### _A data visualization tool to compare salaries, roles, levels, stocks performance and employee satisfaction ratings among different companies to help graduating students and professionals to better decide on which company is more suitable for them._

##### STATEMENT OF NEED
When students start their job hunt, it’s a tough task to find all the relevant information about a company at one place. Hence, the primary aim of our system is to visualize the relevant information about these big software companies so that it will enable students to turn into quick and effective decision-makers. Not only just the monetary benefits, it will also help the students to research about the company in terms of its ranking in Fortune 500, stock prices, revenue generated in previous fiscal year, CEOs fame and net-worth. This kind of information is extremely necessary when a student starts looking for a job and interviewing with a company. It’s also important when a student negotiates about his/her compensation and other benefits related to his employment and trying to choose one job offer over others.

We are planning to create an interactive dashboard for our primary beneficiary i.e. students majoring in Computer Science and related field looking for jobs, to evaluate a company on various grounds before interviewing with them. Currently, there are a bunch of online platforms like Payscale.com, Levels.FYI, Glassdoor to name a few, and provide limited insights about a company’s various hierarchy levels, corresponding salaries, location, Forbes ranking, their CEOs ranking etc. Also, the information in above websites are generally in textual format with little or no visualizations, making it harder for us to perform tasks like compare companies on various parameters.

The second beneficiary of this framework will be the students searching for a good university for their higher education in terms of jobs available for the university students in that location. This system will help the incoming students to select the university based upon the companies located in the same state where the University is located. As per many surveys, companies tend to recruit a greater number of students from local universities to keep their recruitment budget low.

The third beneficiary of this system can be the people interested in reaping profits by investing money in share market particularly in buying/selling shares of the famous Software Companies. Also, many companies offer stock options to their employees as part of their compensation, so it’s an interesting perspective to have a look at the worth of the stocks and the stock performance of that company. For example, 10 shares of Google ($1226/stock) value higher than 100 shares of Yelp($35/stock) [Stock Prices as on today April 15, 2019]. Also, the stock performance of Google is steady than Yelp’s stock performance. So, if a student has offers from Google and Yelp, in terms of stock prices, he may prefer Google over Yelp.


##### THE DATASET
The data required to build this dashboard is not readily available. Hence our first step was to scrape the data from multiple sources on internet including levelsfyi.com, levels.fyi, Glassdoor, Paysa, Forbes etc. using the tool Outwit Hub. We collected over 800 records with following initial attributes so far and we intend to add more attributes (we plan to add a total of 12-14 attributes) as well as more records in our dataset:
* Company Name
* Designation and its associated salary and other monetary benefits (Bonus/ Stock Options)
* Top CS schools in the state where the company is located.
* Total revenues generated by the company in previous year.
* Company’s ranking in Fortune 500 list.
* Net-worth of the CEO of the company
* Stock Market code of the Company
* Web URL to the corresponding company page on NYSE, NASDAQ or AMEX share markets.


##### TECH STACK
We are aiming to make a dashboard using the following technology stack:
* HTML
* CSS
* Javascript/JQuery
* D3
* Flask with Python
